Let's see default arguments in functions. I want to write a function for finding sum of two integers
so I will take a function name as a sum and integer a comma integer B.
Now here I will say return
a plus b.
I want to modify this function for now.
Now this function can take two integers and find the sum of those.
Let us call this one.
cout sum 10, 5  just now we have seen this type of function.
Now I want to write one more function with the three parameters finding the sum of three numbers so I
will declare a variable.
See here itself and I will add these three numbers in them.
Now this function is gone.
I don't have a function which takes two parameters so see here.
No matching function for call to sum.
Not found.
But this is available.
cout sum 12 13 14.
I have passed three Parmeter So this is valid and this function became invalid.
This is valid because there are three arguments.
No what I will do here is the last argument I'll make it as zero.
So this is optional.
Now this is not an error.
If I pass two arguments this  10 goes into A and five goes in B and by default C will be zero.
And when this A B C are added the value of c is zero.
So I'll get the exact result of ten plus five.
So a single function will work as 2 different function one with the two arguments and one with the three
arguments
and these arguments called as default arguments.
The benefit of default argument is we can define overloaded functions by writing a single function.
Now let me write one function for finding maximum of three numbers, let us see int Max integer A integer
b  integer C.
So this is taking three arguments and here.
I will check return if A is greater than B as well as A is greater than c then written A..
Otherwise if B is greater than c return B otherwise written C.
So using ternary operators I have hit this function just in a single line
See this is the conditional statement and this is part and this is as part if I will if I want I can
put it in brackets also.
This is the else part.
This else part is again having a conditional statement and this is the if part and this is the else part.
Now  let me call this function that is Max by passing some arguments 10, 13, 12
ilet us see what is the result.
It will return.
It should return 13.
So this answer is 13.
I got the answer.
Now I want to make one of the argument as default so I'll make C as default.
And here I will pass  just two arguments that is 10 and 13 let us see what will be the result.
Again it is working.
So it's working for just two parameters also.
And it is working for three parameters.
Let me check that with.
Value 15.
I should get that result 15.
Yes so it is working for two arguments.
Also it's working for three arguments also because the last argument is optional and it is having default
i will make first argument.
Also as default this is zero then only one argument is also allowed.
So I let me remove all this and just take ten and call this one.
Yeah it is not an error.
It is able to call that function so it is sending the value 10.
So this is working even.
Even if I send a single parameter also it's working.
I will give this also as zero A also as zero.
And I will not pass any argument.
Yes still it is valid.
So this single function is acting as four different functions.
One is max without any arguments and one is max
with one argument that a 10 and Max with the two arguments.
I'll pass two arguments 10, 13 and one more Max.
with three arguments that is 10,  13, 15.
So for all these function calls the same function will be called and it means it is just like an
overloaded function.
So you can see the complete program here.
So the single function is acting as four different overloaded functions that is zero argument.
One argument two argument and three argument.
So it works it's not an error and it will show different results.
So the values are zero 10.
13 15.
So I got the perfect result for all four function calls. first time and I'm not passing anything so zero
is the greatest number here.
But a past 10 so 10 is the greatest number and so on.
now one more thing i will show you here that if I remove this default argument then what happens.
So it is an error missing default argument on parameter b. so parameter b we have missed this one so
we must give the default argument to this one.
If you want you can skip this one.
It means if you want to fill the default arguments to the parameters you should fill them from the right
hand side not from left hand side and without skipping any argument.
See I have removed the default arguments for this function so it became an invalid function.
I'll make this also as default argument.
Now everything is perfect so the default argument feature is a very useful feature in C++.
I'll give you some exercises.
You have to solve those challenges.
So by the time you try this on your computer.